Source: CDC
Topic: Adult Activity: An Overview

Key points
Physical activity is one of the most important things you can do for your health.
Adults need at least 150 minutes of moderate-intensity physical activity a week, such as 30 minutes a day, 5 days a week.
Adults also need 2 days of muscle-strengthening activity each week.
Recommendations for adults
Physical activity is anything that gets your body moving. Physical activity supports physical and mental health. The benefits of physical activity make it one of the most important things you can do for your health.
According to the current Physical Activity Guidelines for Americans, adults need 150 minutes of moderate-intensity physical activity a week.  This can also be 75 minutes of vigorous-intensity or an equivalent combination of moderate- and vigorous-intensity physical activity. In addition, adults need at least 2 days of muscle-strengthening activity each week.
We know 150 minutes of physical activity each week sounds like a lot, but you don't have to do it all at once. It could be 30 minutes a day, 5 days a week. You can spread your activity out during the week and break it up into smaller chunks of time. See steps for getting started.
Move more, sit less.
Recommended levels for health benefits
Example 1

Moderate-intensity aerobic activity (such as brisk walking) for 150 minutes every week (for example, 30 minutes a day, 5 days a week).
AND

Muscle-strengthening activities on 2 or more days a week that work all major muscle groups (legs, hips, back, abdomen, chest, shoulders, and arms).
Example 2

Vigorous-intensity aerobic activity (such as jogging or running) for 75 minutes (1 hour and 15 minutes) every week.
AND

Muscle-strengthening activities on 2 or more days a week that work all major muscle groups (legs, hips, back, abdomen, chest, shoulders, and arms).
Example 3

An equivalent mix of moderate- and vigorous-intensity aerobic activity on 2 or more days a week.
AND

Muscle-strengthening activities on 2 or more days a week that work all major muscle groups (legs, hips, back, abdomen, chest, shoulders, and arms).
For even greater health benefits
If you go beyond 150 minutes a week of moderate-intensity activity, or 75 minutes a week of vigorous-intensity activity or an equivalent combination, you’ll gain even more health benefits.
Check out this age chart for a quick snapshot of the recommended amounts of weekly activity across age groups.
Want additional tips and resources to be active? Learn about Active People, Healthy NationSM, CDC’s national initiative to help people be more physically active.